there's an adaptation to the hand of the
mole which has been puzzling scientists
for years I absolutely love mole hands
they're very personal to me actually I
was given one when I was about three but
my granddad he used to be a mole catcher
and I kept it with me for ages in a
matchbox but there's something I know
now that I didn't know it's 30 odd years
ago and that's that they have something
that resembles an extra digit that's
strange
because as far as we know no living
species normally has more than the five
digits of the Penta dr. Lim when you
look at an x-ray of the mole hand it
starts to become clear what's going on
they can see really clearly they've got
these five distinct digits each one made
up for lots of little bones just like my
hand but then stuck on the end it's this
whacking great bone here it's a solid
piece of bone that sits on the side of
the hand and whereas these five are true
digits this thing here looks like an
imposter scientists recently found out
that this imposter grows from a sesamoid
bone in the moles wrist
[Music]
sesamoid bones are found where attendant
passes over a joint the kneecap for
instance is a sesamoid bone
they both protect the joint and
increased tension in the tendon making
movement much more effective now this
sesamoid bone has evolved to massively
increase the surface area of the moles
hand allowing it to dig through the soil
much more effectively
[Music]